Introduction
Dancing was the one good thing in my life. I wasn't cleve or popular at school, but I could dance.
Jackie Elliot lives in a small coastal town in the north of England with his two sons, Tony and Billy. Life is hard for the faily. Jakie and Tony are fighting their employers and they are not working. They have no money and Jackie is worried about the future. He is worried about Billy too...
Eleven-year-old Bily Elliot is different from other boys. He is not very clever or good at sport. Then, one day, he discovers ballet dancing. Finally he has found something that he can do well. But everybody knowns that ballet is forgirls, not boys! Will Billy continue to dance? Or will Jackie and Tony stop him?
Billy Elliot is a film by Stephen Daldry, starring Jamie Bell as BIlly, Gary Lewis as his father and Julie Walters as Mrs Wilkinson. The film was written by Lee Hall, and then rewritten as a book by Melvin Burgess.
The story begins in 1984, when many British workers were fighting the government. Margaret Thtcher's government wanted to close a lot of coal mines in England, Wales and Scotland. The miners wanted to keep their jobs. Some went on strike and refused to work. Other workers continued to do their jobs. The government had to send the police to protect them. The strike continued for a long time before everybody went back to work. But a few years later, nearly all the coal mines in the UK were closed and thousands of workers lost their jobs.
Billy Elliot was a very successful film in many contries across the world. It is now also a musical play, with songs by Sir Elton John.

Chapter 1 BIlly's Story: Family Life
My brother Tony is stupid, but he likes good music. I listen to his records before school when he and my dad are out on the picket line. My grandmother - we call her Nan - likes the music too. I play the music and she sits in bed and sings. Sometimes we dance around the room She's nearly eighty and she can't walk far. But she lifts her arms up in the air and tries to stand on one leg like a ballet dancer.
Dad and Tony don't like it when she dances. They think it's stupid. But I want her to dance and sing all day.
This morning I made her breakfast and danced into her room.
"Hey, Nan, it's the dancing waiter," I said.
But she wasn't there!
I ran out of the door. My dad will kill me if I lose Nan. I raced up the road shouting, "Nan! Nan!"
Where was she? Was she on her way down to the sea? You can see the sea from our house and she goes there sopmetimes. But little Alison, one of the neighbour's children, pointed up the street.
Suddenly I knew: Nan was in the field under the railway bridge. She often goes there. Nobody knows why. Maybe she played there when she was a child.
"Nan!" I shouted.
She turned and looked at me. I pused through the long wet grass. Poor Nan, she was wet and frightened.
"I don't know where I am," she said.
"Don't you want your eggs?" I said.
"You're new," she said.
"Nan, it's Billy. Billy."
Three vans stopped near the railway bridge and lots of policemen climbed out. Theyfrightened me. Nan looked at them.
"What are they?" she said.
"Police, Nan. It's the police."
"I hate them!" she shouted. She waved her arms at them.
Some of them looked at us, but they didn't come down.
"Have they come for us, Billy? she whispered. She knows about the police. She knows that they're not on our side.
"Not us, Nan. They're not interested in us."
"Is it Jackie? Is it Tony?" she asked.
I didn't answer. I took her arm and we walked home.
The next day, I was playing a song on the piano and thinking about Mum. Tony was eating and Dad was washing the dishes. Nan was sitting on her bed, singing.
Mum died two years ago. I don't think anyone remembers her except me. I miss her, I miss her every day. I miss her when I'm walking through the house. I miss her when I'm playing the piano.
I have a letter from my mum. She wrote it for my eighteenth birthday, but I opened it early.
"Dear BIlly..."
Can you hear? Can you hear my mum's voice?
Listen.
"Dear Billy, I didn't see you grow up. I missed you crying and laughing. I missed you shouting. But please know that I was always with you. I always will be. I am very proud of you. I am proud that you are my son. I love you very much."
I keep the letter in a box under my bed, I read it when nobody is in the room. Tony and I sleep in the same bedroom, and one night I read the letter to him. I wanted him to remember my mum with me, me and him together. But he didn't want to.
"Don't you miss her?" I asked him.
"Oh be quiet," he said angrily. Then he went to sleep.
I was playing the piano and thinking about Mum. She played the piano too. I can't really play. I'd like piano lessons but we haven't got enough money.
My dad and Tony don't have time to remember Mum. They're too busy on the picket line or down the mine. Fighting - always fighting. Fighting the government, fighting with the bosses. Fighting at home. Fighting me.
They were arguing again that morning.
"We must go, Dad! We'll be late!"
Tony pulled on his boots. But Dad wanted to make the house tidy. He doesn't like leaving Nan alone in the house.
"I have to make your nan's breakfast."
"Billy can do it. It's time to go!"
"Wait a minute," Dad said, and went outside. He came back in with some coal. "We haven't got much coal now," he said.
"The strike will end soon," Tony said. "We'll be back down the mine next month,"
"No we won't," Dad said.
Tony looked angrily at him. "You don't want to go on the picket line, do you?" he said. "You want to stay in bed."
"Tony..."Dad began.
"I'm not waiting for you," Tony said, and walked to the door.
"Tony! Tony, wait for me!" Dad shouted, but Tony was gone.
Dad didn't follow him. He stood and looked at the door. I played another song on the piano.
"Be quiet, Billy!" he shouted at me suddenly.
"Mum didn't mind," I said.
He came up behind me and closed the piano suddenly. He nearly broke my fingers. Then he ran out of the way out.
Oh no! I throught. Today I'm boxing. I hate it when he watches me.
"Listen. I boxed. My dad boxed. You box." That's my dad. I box because he and his father boxed. Every Saturday morning I put the gloves round my neck and go to the club. Then I try to break someone's head.
Boxing is OK. But I have my own ideas about it and they don't like that. They think boxing is about hitting people hard. They think it's about your hands, but it's not. It's about your feet.
"Don't move!" George, my boxing teacher, shouts. "Hit him! Hit him! Stop moving! Stop and fight!"
He doesn't understand. The other person gets tired if I dance round them. Then I can hit them. But George can't wait. Nobody can wait.

Cahpter2 Jackie's Story: The Boxing Club
I worry about Billy. I try to be a good father, but every boy needs a mother. And Billy's not an ordinary boy.
We're fighting now, for our future and for our town. It's a fight for my job and for Tony's job - but is it a fight for Billy? I know he's diffrent. Our Billy will never go down the mine and bring up the coal.
Everything has changed. My dad was on strike in the 1930s, but then the miners were important. Everybody needed coal because they've got oil and gas. And coal from Argentina is cheaper than English coal.
The government doesn't like us. The head of the government, already closed half the factories. Now she's closing the mines. At first, I thought we could stop her. Now I'm not sure.
Maybe Tony's right. Maybe I'm old and soft. I've lost almost everything. My lovely wife Sarah is dead. I've only got the boys and the strike. Life is hard, very, very hard. I stay on strike because of Tony. What will he do if the mines close? You can't be a miner without a mine. So here I am, fighting for Ony and for Billy. I've nothing to give them. No job. No mother. No future. Just me.
Every Saturday, I watch Billy box. I miss the beginning of the class because I'm on the picket likne. It's hard out there. We watch the scabs going into the mine in buses. Tony and some of the other young men want to hurt the scabs. They want blood. They shout it sometimes:"BLOOD! BLOOD! BLOOD!"
I don't agree with them. I don't want to hurt anyone. But I know why Tony's angry. We're fighting for the future, and those scabs are hiding behind the police. They're men that I worked with. They're men that I went to school with. They're my friends - and they're riding into the mine behind the police. We have to fight the bosses. We don't want to fight our friends too.
I went to the club on Saturday to watch my boy at his boxing class. I boxed when I was a boy. My dad boxed and Tony boxed too. Now Billy has boxing lessons. I tell him, "You must fight, boy. If you can't fight, people will hurt you."
There was a ballet class in the hall. It was full of little girls in pink dresses jumping up and down, up and down.
"Bottoms out!" called the ballet teacher.
Ballet and boxing, in the same place. I laughed. Put the little girls in boxing gloves and the boys in those pink shoes, I thought. That wil be funny!
Billy was in the boxing ring with another boy.
"Hit him, Billy!" I shouted. BIlly's getting better. He moves his feet well. "You move well," I said, "But hit him too!"
The other boy was taller and stronger than Billy, but he was fat. Billy will win easily, I thought. Then they started to fight...
What was Billy doing? He was dancing, turning in circles.
"Oh no," George said. "Not again. This isn't a tea party, it's a fight. Hit him! Hit him!"
He looked at me and I shook my head.
Billy was dancing round and round the boxing ring. The other boy stood there, watching.
"Watch him, Billy!" I shouted.
Too late. The other boy walked up to Billy and hit him. And there was Billy, on his back.
Geroge was very angry. "Billy Elliot, you're the worst boxer in this club! Bring mefifty pence for the lesson."
I couldn't look at Billy. I was so angry. What can I do for that boy? If he can't fight a fat boy, what can he do?

Chapter3 Billy's Story: The Ballet Class
"Hit it! You'll stay here until you do hit it, Billy Elliot."
I hit the practice bag. I imagined it was George's face.
"Keep your feet on the ground, Elliot! Don't be stupid! Hit it!"
"Bottoms in. Feel the music. And - one and two and three and four. Lift your arms. Feel the music!"
Across the hall, a woman was teaching her ballet class. An old man was playing the piano. One and two and three and four...
I started hitting to the sound of the music, then I laughed. George won't like this, I thought.
"That's better. Why don't you do that to somebody's head one day? George took some keys from his pocket and threw them to me. "Give those to Mrs Wilkinson when you finish. I'll see you next week."
He went out of the hall. Good. This bag is George's head, I thought. I hit it harder.
I don't like boxing. My friend Michael is right - it's stupid.
"Why do you want to hit people? It's stupid," he asked.
"You must fight people. If you don't, they'll hit you."
"I run away," Michael said.
The music changed.
"And hold," the teacher said. "Don't look at me, Susan, look in front of you. Lift your arms up... and down. Good. Eyes front, Debbie. And five and siz..."
I took off the gloves and walked across the hall. THe girls were pretty in their pink dresses, but I felt a bit uncomfortable.
"Miss, the keys... the keys, Miss!" I said.
She didn't look at me. "Not now," she said. "Three, four, And five, and six..."
The music started again and the girls danced. They were clever. They all lifted their arms at the same time and they turned round. Then they lifted their legs and pointed their feet. It was interesting - but it was easy. I can do that, I thought. I lifted my foot. See? Easy!
"Why don't you try?" a girl said to me.
It was Debbie Wilkinson. She's in my class at school.
"No," I said. Can you imagine me in a ballet class!
"It's not easy," she said. "You can't do it."
"I can!"
She lifted her leg up and pointed her toes.
"Do that," she said.
I put my leg out and pointed my foot.
"See?" she said.
It was true. Her foot was more pointed than mine.
"I'm wearing my boots," I said.
"Your leg's shaking," she said. She was laughing at me but she was right. Her leg wasn't shaking, but mine was.
My nan wanted to be a dancer. Mum could dance too. Nan took Mum to ballet lessons when she was a girl. I thought about Nan and Mum dancing. Not everybody in our family boxes.
I moved with the girls, but it was very difficult. Up and down and one and two and three and four...
"Take your boots off!"
"Ow!"
Miss was standing on my foot.
"How big are your feet? Two, three! Boots off! Four, five. And six and seven."
Take off my boots? Why? I didn't know, but I took them off. Then she dropped a big pair of ballet shoes in front of me.
"Put them on," she said. "You can't dance in those boots."
So I put on the shoes. Nobody saw me except the girls. And do you know something? I think they liked me in their ballet class.
Mrs Wilkinson was a good teacher. We moved up and down, up and down. We pointed our arms in front and our legs behind us and she looked at me.
"Nice straight leg," she said.
It was easier with the shoes, but not very easy. You try it - stand for a minute on one leg with your arms in front of you. You'll see. It's hard.
She didn't say anything. But she thought I was good.
Later, when I was walking home, she stopped her car next to me. Debbie was in the back seat. I didn't know she was Miss's daughter.
"Give me fifty pence," Miss said.
"Why?"
"For the ballet class. Bring it next week."
"I have to go to boxing, Miss."
"But you're no good at boxing, Miss."
"But you're no good at boxing," Debbie said.
"Be quiet, Debbie." Mrs Wilkinson looked at me. "Didn't you enjoy the ballet class?"
I didn't say anything.
"OK," she said and drove away. Debbie made a funny face through the back window.
She was right - I enjoyed the class. I ran and jumped down the road. The music filled my head. Next day, every part of my body hurt.
I thought about ballet every day. One and two and up and down. It;s interesting, but it's stupid too. My dad and Tony will laugh at me. You can't dance in a coal mine.
Not everyone think s ballet is stupid. Some of the girls say I was brave. But then they told the boys and the boys laughed at me. It's not important. The boys at school always laugh at me.
One day, Debbie followed me home after school.
"Lots of boys dance ballet," she said.
"Only gay boys," I told her.
"Not all of them are gay," she said.
We were at the top of the hill. We could see the mine with a lot of miners and policemen around it. There were thousands of people. A police van drove past us and I saw the faces of the police inside.
"I go boxing on Saturdays," I said.
"OK," she said, and turned away.
She lives on the other side of the town. Big houses, big gardens, posh people.
She walked away. I looked down at the mine where the miners were shouting at the police. It was a war.
Earlier today, I told Michael about the ballet and showed him some of the moves. All the boys were runnning across the school field during the sports lesson. Michael and I hate runnning, so we went down to the railway line. We hide there sometimes. We sat and talked for ten minutes, then I showed him some ballet moves.
"Put your leg out," I said. "Arm out, one, two!"
He looked at me and smiled.
"Eyes to the front," I told him.
I showed him all the moves. Do you know something? I'm much better than him.
"You've had lessons," he said.
"One lesson," I told him.
"Will you go to the class again?"
"No."
"But you're good at ballet."
"It's for girls."
"I don't think so," Michael said. "You look... like a man. Strong."
When next Saturdya came, Dad and Tony went to the pikcet line. I took my fifty pence and gloves and went to the hall. But when I got there, I heard George. He was shouting. I ddin't want to go into the boxing class. Michael's right, boxing is stupid. I hid in the changing room until the other boys left. Then I went to the ballet class.
At first the class was boring. I didn't know the ballet moves. The girls danced on the left of the room and I danced on the right.
"What are you doing?" Miss asked.
"I don't know what to do, Miss."
"Follow the others. Go to the back of the room and watch - two, three, one two three..."
I tried but it wasn't much fun. I wanted to leave. Then Miss shouwed me the spin.
I've seen people spin on TV. They move very fast, then they suddenly stop. If you don't do it well, you fall on your back. I wasn't any good at the spin.
"Billy, you're not a girl! Try harder! Spin!"
I did - and I fell onto the floor. The girls looked at me, but they didn't laugh. People don't laugh in Miss's class.
"Do it again at home," she said.
Then we did some slower ballet moves. That was easier.
At the end of the class I was very tired, but I felt good.
"I can do that spin," I thought.
Debbie was waiting for me. "The spin's hard," she said. She practised it in front of me.
"I'm faster than you," I told her.
"You can't do it," she laughed.
I stood up. I did a slow spin first and it was good. But when I turned faster, I fell again.
Mrs Wilkinson walked across the room to us.
"Go away," she said to Debbie.
Debbie walked away and Miss looked down at me.
"Are you going to come to the class nevt week?"
"I don't know. I feel stupid," I said.
"Then give me you rballet shoes."
I stopped. I didn't like ballet much. But that spin - I wanted to do it.
"No, it's OK," I said.
"Good," she said.
She walked away. She didn't say goodbye.
I danced through the streets to my home. Ballet was different and exciting. Then suddenly, I was in the kitchen with the ballet shoes in my hand and the boxing gloves around my neck. What am I doing? I thought. Dad will kill me if he sees these shoes.
Nan was waiting for me.
"Oh, ballet shoes," she said. "I was a dancer."
"Don't tell anybody, Nan," I said.
Then I ran upstairs and hid the shoes.

Chapter 4 Jackie's Story: The Miners' Strike
Something strange is happening. Billy is my son and I love him. But he's different from other boys and he does strange thing. When he was ten, he sat in a box all day. Then it was football. He wasn't very good at the game, but he practised all the time. Now he's spinning round in circles, in the kitchen, in the hall, in his bedroom. He holds out his arms and he spins and he fall s on the floor. Then he starts again.
"What are you doing?" Tony asked him.
"I'm practising a spin. It's a boxing move," he said.
I've never seen that boxing move before!
"Stop it!" I shouted at him, but he didn't.
Every day, he stood with his arms out and tried again. Then one day I came home from the shop and he was outside the house. He was looking at the wall, arms out - then he spun round two or three times. He  went really fast.
"Yes! Yes, yes, I did it, I did it!"
He was very excited and I smiled.
"You did it," I said.
He jumjped, "Dad, you frightened me! I didn't see you."
"Have you tried this move at the boxing club?"
"No, not yet. I want to get it right every time."
"Did George teach you this spin, Billy? What does he think about it?"
"George? No. He doesn't say anything."
"You'll surprise him next Saturday."
Billy didn't say anything, but he looked at the ground.
"A few days later, he started to jump. High, big, long jumps with his hands over his head. What's he doing? Does he think he's a ballet dancer?
"Is that another boxing move?" I asked.
"Yes."
I don't understand. Is George teaching him these strange moves? When the fat boy knocked Billy down, I stopped going to the club. I have too many problems. I haven't got time to watch Billy at the boxing club. It's the fourth month of the stirke and I haven't got any money. The strike won't end soon. And one day the mine will close down.
Tony is angry. I understand whey he's angry. But he's crazy too and he's looking for a fight. I'm afraid that he's going to do something stupid.
We were in the supermarket yesterday and we saw Gary Stewart. He had a bag full of food.
"Look at him," Tony said. Tony and Gary went to school together. They were friends before the stirke.
"Be careful," I whispered.
One day Tony will hit somebody and the police will throw him in prison.
"Are you OK, scab?" called Tony. We knew Gary was a scab. Strikers can't buy big bags of food. "Have you got enough food? What are you doing? We can't win this strike if our people cross the picket line."
"We won't win the stirke, my friend," Gary said.
"I'm not your friend. Not now. You and the other scabs - you'll make us lose!" Tony shouted. He was getting more and more angry.
Gary threw down his bag and walked away.
Is Tony going to follow him? I thought. Will he hit him? But Tony didn't move. He'll hit somebody soon. I hope it's not a policeman.
On Friday morning the picket line was bigger. There are a lot of new pickets - students, teachers on holiday, people from across the world. And half the policemen in Great Britain are standing between the pickets and the scabs.
On Friday, the ppickets were throwing eggs and stones. I was standing enxt to George, holding his arm. The crowd pushed forward and the police pushed us back.
"Listen Jackie," George said. "Don't worry about the fifty pence. I don't need it. The money isn't important."
"What are you talking about?" I asked.
"The boxing. I haven't seen Billy for months."
"What? But he's always practising." I didn't tell him about the spins and the jumps.
"Send him to my house and I'll talk to him," George said.
Then the police pushed forward again. Someone threw a rock into the side of a bus full of scabs.
"SCAB! SCAB! SCAB!"
We pushed forward hard and I was lifted almost off my feet. You didn't want to fall down in the middle of this.
Was Billy keeping the fity pences? I'm going to kill him, I thought.
Next morning, Billy ran quicly downstairs. He was hiding something under his coat.
"Billy! Billy!" I shouted but he ran out of the house. 
What's he doing now? I thought.
